>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so
let's start talking about JavaScript, so
I wanna start with a question for you.
So if you go to an interview and
someone is asking,
which version of JavaScript are you using,
what's your answer?
ES6, so is that the JavaScript version?
So the first thing is that we
are not sure what to answer, right?
If you think about the question,
it's not really a straight answer.
So it's complicated, it's like why but
something is like, yes, something to.
So it's not clear, right?
Compare with other languages, where
it's actually really clear when you're
doing C sharp when you're doing Java or
GO or any other language, it's actually
really clear the version that you're
using, okay, but not in JavaScript.
So, in fact,
let's try to analyze the situation do
we have versions in JavaScript itself?
So let's try to get in there,
these days JavaScript and
I will nail down into the,
even the legal concepts here.
JavaScript is not actually versioned,
okay?
But, of course, some of your answers
were actually yes, yes, something.
So, there is something that is versioned
that is currently not JavaScript.
I mean, when you're using
JavaScript in the browser,
you don't specify a version anywhere.
Of course, we know that we
are not compiling JavaScript,
compiling in the, let's say,
the deep sense of compilation.
Like taking a source code and getting
binary code, okay, we're not doing that.
So then we're not using a compiler and the
compiler is the one that has a version.
So when I'm using C sharp, I'm using a
compiler, and that compiler is C sharp 12,
C sharp 11, okay, the compiler
is the one that has the version.
But in this case, we are shipping source
code, we're deploying source code to
the web, and we don't specify a version
in the script tag, for example.
Also, when you're using Node.js, you don't
specify a version in the source code, or
when you are running your node script,
there is no command argument to specify,
I want to use that version of JavaScript.
We don't have that, and
that's different from other languages.
Actually, when people are coming to
JavaScript from other languages,
this is the first thing
that they see as a problem.
It's, you don't have versions here,
so how do you work with that?
Well, actually to be
fair here with history,
we used to have JavaScript versions,
I remember this, okay?
This is from 1996,
actually on the Mozilla umbrella world,
that's Netscape and then Firefox.
So we had a way to specify the version
of JavaScript that we want, okay?
And we did have versions here,
from 1.0 to 1.8.5,
that was the last version of
JavaScript from the Mozilla team.
But that was deprecated even in
Firefox in 2010, okay, so it's gone.
And of course, this was not
actually part of the community.
At that time,
we didn't have books on JavaScript 1.3 or
JavaScript 1.4, okay,
it wasn't the case anyway.
And of course, Microsoft and other
browsers didn't take these versions, okay?
So this is deprecated, and
we don't use the language attribute
on the script tag anymore.
So, brief history of JavaScript,
not because this is a history lesson,
but because there are some
important things to understand,
to then know why things
are the way they are, okay?
So in 1995,
Brendan Eich created JavaScript.
And JavaScript there is not alone, it has
that little TM Unicode character there.
That's a trademark, okay, and
that's important here for the discussion.
So I talked with Brendan, so we met in
twice, I think, in different conferences.
And he told me that he was looking for
a name for
the language that he was creating for
Netscape.
Initially, there was different
names including Live Script,
but it was already used.
He had a friend working
at some microsystems,
and they were working on
a language as well, Java.
And for the language,
they registered a couple of trademarks,
Java, JavaScript, and Java other things.
And actually, his friend told him,
told Brendan, hey, so we have JavaScript,
the name, and we're not going to use it,
you wanna use it for your language?
But we know that there is no
relationship between JavaScript and
Java more than the first four characters,
okay?
So JavaScript is not really
like a minor version of
Java as VBScript was to Visual Basic,
okay?
Anyway, but that trademark thing is
important in the timeline of JavaScript.
So then Netscape 2, 2.0, actually that
was the first browser I used on Windows,
added JavaScript 1.0,
the first version of JavaScript, okay?
IE Microsoft at the time was
actually the main competitor of some
microsystem at least on this spar,
and I'm also on the browsers,
at the time it was
called the browsers war.
We had Netscape on one side, and IE,
Internet Explorer on the other side.
So Microsoft didn't want to take
a legal battle over the JavaScript
term because it was a trademark.
So they created JScript, I'm not
sure if you're aware about JScript.
JScript was actually Microsoft's
implementation of JavaScript,
with minor differences.
It was compatible on 99% of the code, but
it wasn't actually JavaScript legally,
it was JScript, okay?
Anyway, because that was a mess, so that
we have two main browsers on the field,
supporting two different languages,
it was a mess for us, for developers.
Actually, is that Brendan went
to the ECMA organization,
it's a nonprofit organization,
where you can set an standard.
So, we can go there and sit down and
say, okay, we here at Frontend Masters,
we wanna create a new standard for
something, okay?
We can sit there and
create a document, and
we can publish the document on the ECMA,
okay?
And they created the ECMA-Script,
that was actually JavaScript, but
formalized as a document with a standard
process, okay, that's ECMA-Script.
So it was the JavaScript thing,
but now formalize as a standard
in a non-profit organization,
okay, that's kinda the idea.
And actually, IE4 was the first one,
Internet Explorer 4 was the first
one supporting ECMAScript 1, and
that was the first step into having
one JavaScript for all, okay?
And we are talking about
the era of the Internet where
browsers were actually shipped in CD-ROMs,
okay?
So this is the original Internet Explorer
4 CD-ROM from Microsoft.
And this was the first one supporting
ECMAScript 1 from Microsoft, okay?
Of course,
you need to get it physically somehow to
actually install it in your computer.
And then different versions appear,
okay, we have ES2,
there was a 2.1, I don't wanna
spend too much time with that.
On 1999, ES3 was released, okay?
And actually we have a lot of ES,
like almost 10 ES,
known as The Dark ages of the web where
JavaScript was kind of dead, okay?
We didn't have any new versions and
also at that time we didn't have a lot
of browsers, so everyone was using IE.
We are talking about the era of IE6,
IE5.5, then IE6 and
JavaScript was kind of there.
I remember at the time we didn't
have JavaScript books anymore.
So every book on JavaScript was actually
from the early 2000s or late 90s.
Because JavaScript was for babies,
something like that, right?
So you were doing all the stuff,
if it was client side,
it was flash, the flash player.
And if it was server side it was or PHP or
.net or Java, but no JavaScript, okay?
Well, of course, things have changed
after that fortunately for us,
that's why we are here
talking about JavaScript.
And then in 2009 ES5 was released, and
maybe you're thinking
what happened with ES4.
It was never released, so
there was a five there, it doesn't matter,
politics came,
actually it came to politics.
And anyway, ES5 was released, and
let's say that five years ago,
if someone didn't know the version
of JavaScript that she or
he was using, it was probably ES5.
Today, I can say that if you know
the version of JavaScript you're using,
you're probably using ES6,
the version that appeared in 2015,
that actually started a new life for
JavaScript.
Because now we have a new process that
creates a new version per year, okay?
From 2015 from ES6, ECMAScript 6,
we have a new version per year, okay?
Initially that sounds scary,
okay, because hey, but
I mean if you're coming from Angola,
probably you're raised there, okay?
You have maybe two main major versions
per year, something like that.
But that doesn't mean that every new
version changes completely the language or
reciting loads of stuff,
sometimes it's just minor changes, okay?
So that's why today we don't know when
someone is asking which version of
ECMAScript are we using,
sometimes we are not really sure, okay?
I mean, it's fine, so
JavaScript is a trademark today of
Oracle Corporation,
Oracle acquire Sun Microsystems.
And now he has the JavaScript
trademark in the US.
And actually, we had some
situation such as Oracle sending
emails from lawyers to people
using the JavaScript term.
In this case, it was in the App Store,
so someone was having a JavaScript
course on the App Store, like an app
with that JavaScript term in the title.
And yeah Oracle sends them a notification
say, hey this is our trademark,
then after that Oracle
apologized about that,
they said that they
didn't intend to do that.
So at this point I think that Oracle
even if they own the trademark,
they can't use it legally,
they can't say it's our trademark anymore.
So, I mean,
the negative reaction of doing that has
really a high cost, so
they don't wanna do that anyway.
So that's why for legal issues,
most companies will use ECMAScript
when they say that they're implementing or
talking about JavaScript.
And some other companies, and
even Microsoft and Google these days,
they don't care anymore, and
they just say JavaScript and it's fine.
No one is really complaining, okay?
So, and by the way,
the Mozilla Foundation,
that is the one that is creating Firefox.
Has an agreement with Oracle
to use the JavaScript or
to keep the JavaScript trademark.
But anyway,
it's not like Firefox is the only browser
using JavaScript these days, okay?
But ECMAScript, the name,
is free to use and
also is the name that we use
to version the language.
So we can say that JavaScript and
ECMAScript is kind of the same thing.